well how do you there internet people
it's Bo again so today we're gonna talk
about teens what's going on today and
moral injury we're gonna do this because
I got a message and I'm not gonna read
the whole thing but enough of it for you
to get the idea hey Bo I'm a teen from
New York been watching the response
unfold the people in my family have
contracted it been hospitalized I along
most of my friends are livid we know we
have been wronged by those in
government's who delayed the response
downplayed the threat and put our
families at risk found one of your
videos from last year talking about
moral injury in teens
that's what I'm saying in my friends
fits the bill to the letter could you
talk about how moral injury relates to
what is happening now absolutely
absolutely the thing is the advice is
pretty much the same the situation is
different but the advice is the same I
mean with the exception of now I I would
suggest that you wear a mask for those
don't know moral injury is perpetrating
felling to prevent or witnessing a gross
transgression of your morals when it
gets brought up
it's normally talking about soldiers it
know that's normally when the term comes
up soldiers who saw something horrible
much like PTSD though it's not limited
to soldiers what is happening now can
definitely be a catalyst for no doubt
the thing is though
it's not an act you know perpetrating
failing to prevent or witnessing a gross
transgression normally we think of that
as a singular act one thing that
happened and it has a perpetrator as in
that definition what teams are
witnessing today and what they are
realizing is that it's not a single
thing and it doesn't really have a
perpetrator it's not a person it's not
somebody that can be hauled in from the
court it's a systemic failure because
they are witnessing all of the facade
the movie set that we've built that we
say this is America they're watching it
come tumbling down around them and they
are smarter than a lot of us they
understand that it's a system that is
built like that to keep people right on
the edge and then when something happens
it's real easy for them to slip off what
happens when you suffer a moral injury
you become demoralized it's hard to
maintain a positive outlook on things
you start engaging in self-handicapping
behavior you know I don't worry about
that not gonna finish it might start but
not going to finish it because nothing
matters I mean look around it's what
happens and the inoculation for that is
belief in the just world hypothesis I
always kind of laugh at the idea of that
being helpful because generally speaking
not in all cases but in most if you have
suffered a moral injury you know the
world's not just the good guy doesn't
always win and the bad guy doesn't
always get punished I always find it
funny when I see that in texts this will
help yeah but it's hard to believe in
something you know to be false
but it is what it is the other thing
that is helpful is self esteem self
esteem which is something that teens in
general have issues with you know how do
you generate self-esteem for this it's
easy it's easy because you know what the
problem is you're right it's not a
person it's a system system can't be
hold in front of the court but it can be
changed and you can be that change and I
know you know what can I do
younger people write everything it's
always it's always the younger
generation that actually changes the
world older people we can advise we can
assess we can facilitate but it's always
the younger people that do the heavy
lifting really is it's always been that
way
so what can you do get in the fight
in the fight do one thing each day for
28 days then it is no longer something
you have to think about doing it's a
habit you're used to it doesn't have to
mean anything huge a social media post
something that's simple you know it's
not gonna change the world today but
you've joined the fight you've gotten in
the campaign and it is a campaign and
that's something you have to be aware of
if you're younger because people my age
and younger we are used to instant
gratification we are used to instant
communication everything being available
on tap whenever we want it this isn't
like that this is getting involved in
something that requires a long-term
commitment because the system is broke
it did let you down it did put you at
risk it always does
if you're younger your exposure to
government is pretty limited really the
government employs you run across most
people they're what teachers the
firefighter who comes to the school good
people people you look up to that's not
the whole of government you get higher
up the chain and it becomes exactly what
you imagined it to be people doing math
to see how many we can lose before it
impacts their chances for re-election
you're right
you're right they let you down today the
system we let you down because we
enabled it and that's why you have to
get involved fighting against it now
because if you don't you will eventually
buy into it you will become one of the
people who downplay the threat
you will become a supporter of the
people who put your families at risk and
you won't even think about it because if
you stay inside that system you don't
step out I can look at it from the
outside and realize that there could be
something better eventually you'll
believe in it eventually you will say
this is all there is no it's not perfect
but it's the best we've got maybe that's
true but that doesn't mean it can't be
better it can be it can be improved and
you and your friends can be the people
to improve it it's gonna beat your
generation y'all are gonna do the heavy
lifting all we can do is help it's got
to be you because you're still outside
of that system you haven't bought into
it yet you don't have the the sunk cost
fallacy where you've put so much faith
into something that it's painful to
reject it you don't want to waste all of
that faith so you keep justifying the
behavior you haven't done that yet you
and your friends are more capable of
changing the world than people my age
because you're more open to new ideas
and it's gonna take new ideas and it's
gonna take you guys being active
one thing a day do what you can when you
can where you can for as long as you can
one thing every day for 28 days then you
won't even think about it anymore and
you will continue doing it you want to
change the world you want to overcome
the moral injury you want to change the
system that let you down you can just
got to get in the fight anyway it's just
a thought y'all have a good night